.NET Core 2.2 HealthChecks Update (#9872)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/microservices-architecture/implement-resilient-applications/monitor-app-health.md

---
title: Health monitoring

> description: .NET Microservices Architecture for Containerized .NET Applications | Health monitoring

Author: Fixed.

author: CESARDELATORRE
ms.author: wiwagn
ms.date: 01/07/2019
---
# Health monitoring

Health monitoring can allow near-real-time information about the state of your containers and microservices. Health monitoring is critical to multiple aspects of operating microservices and is especially important when orchestrators perform partial application upgrades in phases, as explained later.

> Microservices-based applications often use heartbeats or health checks to enable their performance monitors, schedulers, and orchestrators to keep track of the multitude of services. If services cannot send some sort of “I’m alive” signal, either on demand or on a schedule, your application might face risks when you deploy updates, or it might simply detect failures too late and not be able to stop cascading failures that can end up in major outages.

Author: Brought back ones that are applicable. The previous version referred to experimental HealthCheck libs. In the new version, we're talking about the new health check feature.

In the typical model, services send reports about their status, and that information is aggregated to provide an overall view of the state of health of your application. If you are using an orchestrator, you can provide health information to your orchestrator’s cluster, so that the cluster can act accordingly. If you invest in high-quality health reporting that is customized for your application, you can detect and fix issues for your running application much more easily.

> ## Implementing health checks in ASP.NET Core services

Author: Fixed.

description: .NET Microservices Architecture for Containerized .NET Applications | Health monitoring
author: CESARDELATORRE
ms.author: wiwagn

> ms.date: 01/07/2017

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 01/07/2019
```

> 

Reviewer: update date on line 6

## Implementing health checks in ASP.NET Core services

When developing an ASP.NET Core microservice or web application, you can use the built-in health checks feature that was released in ASP .NET Core 2.2. Like many ASP.NET Core features, health checks come with a set of services and a middleware.

Health check services and middleware are easy to use and provide capabilities that let you validate if any external resource needed for your application (like a SQL Server database or a remote API) is working properly. When you use this feature, you can also decide what it means that the resource is healthy, as we explain later.

> In order to use this feature effectively, you need to first configure services in your microservices. Second, you need a front-end application that queries for the health reports. That front-end application could be a custom reporting application, or it could be an orchestrator itself that can react accordingly to the health states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this feature effectively, you need to first configure services in your microservices. Second, you need a front-end application that queries for the health reports. That front-end application could be a custom reporting application, or it could be an orchestrator itself that can react accordingly to the health states.
```

> ### Using the HealthChecks feature in your back end ASP.NET microservices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using the HealthChecks feature in your back-end ASP.NET microservices
```

> First, we will look at how the HealthChecks feature is used in a sample ASP.NET Core 2.2 Web API application. Later, we will dig deeper on how this feature is utilized in eShopOnContainers. To begin, you need to define what constitutes a healthy status for each microservice. In the sample application, the microservices are healthy if the microservice API is accessible via HTTP and its related SQL Server database is also available.

Reviewer: We don't use **we** in our text unless it's a Microsoft recommendation
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/w/we

utilized -> used

> In .NET Core 2.2, with the built-in APIs, you can configure the services, add a Health Check for the microservice and its depending SQL Server database in this way:

Reviewer: depending -> dependent?

```csharp
// Startup.cs from .NET Core 2.2 Web Api sample
//
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
…
    // Registers required services for health checks
    services.AddHealthChecks()
    // Add a health check for a SQL database
    .AddCheck("MyDatabase", new SqlConnectionHealthCheck(Configuration["ConnectionStrings:DefaultConnection"]));
}

> ```

Reviewer: remove empty line from before ``` and add an empty line after

> In the above code, `services.AddHealthChecks()` method configures a basic HTTP check that returns a Status code **200** with “Healthy”.  Further,`AddCheck()` extension method configures a custom `SqlConnectionHealthCheck` that checks the related SQL Database’s health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous code, the `services.AddHealthChecks()` method configures a basic HTTP check that returns a status code **200** with “Healthy”.  Further, the `AddCheck()` extension method configures a custom `SqlConnectionHealthCheck` that checks the related SQL Database’s health.
```

> `AddCheck()` method adds a new health check with a specified name and the implementation of type `IHealthCheck`. You can add multiple Health Checks using AddCheck method thus, a microservice will not provide a “healthy” status until all its checks are healthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AddCheck()` method adds a new health check with a specified name and the implementation of type `IHealthCheck`. You can add multiple Health Checks using AddCheck method, so a microservice won't provide a “healthy” status until all its checks are healthy.
```

> `SqlConnectionHealthCheck` is a custom class that implements `IHealthCheck` which takes a connection string as a constructor parameter and executes a simple query to check if the connection to the SQL database is successful. It returns `HealthCheckResult.Healthy()` if the query was executed successfully and a `FailureStatus` with the actual exception when it fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SqlConnectionHealthCheck` is a custom class that implements `IHealthCheck`, which takes a connection string as a constructor parameter and executes a simple query to check if the connection to the SQL database is successful. It returns `HealthCheckResult.Healthy()` if the query was executed successfully and a `FailureStatus` with the actual exception when it fails.
```

        : this(connectionString, testQuery: DefaultTestQuery)
    {
    }

    public SqlConnectionHealthCheck(string connectionString, string testQuery)
    {
        ConnectionString = connectionString ?? throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(connectionString));
        TestQuery = testQuery;
    }

    public async Task<HealthCheckResult> CheckHealthAsync(HealthCheckContext context, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default(CancellationToken))
    {
        using (var connection = new SqlConnection(ConnectionString))
        {
            try
            {
                await connection.OpenAsync(cancellationToken);

                if (TestQuery != null)
                {
                    var command = connection.CreateCommand();
                    command.CommandText = TestQuery;

                    await command.ExecuteNonQueryAsync(cancellationToken);
                }
            }
            catch (DbException ex)
            {
                return new HealthCheckResult(status: context.Registration.FailureStatus, exception: ex);
            }
        }

        return HealthCheckResult.Healthy();
    }
}
```

> Note in the above code, `Select 1` is the query used to check the Health of the database. To monitor the availability of your microservices, orchestrators like Kubernetes and Service Fabric periodically perform health checks by sending requests to test the microservices. It is important to keep your database queries very efficient so that these operations are quick and don’t result in a higher utilization of resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that in the previous code, `Select 1` is the query used to check the Health of the database. To monitor the availability of your microservices, orchestrators like Kubernetes and Service Fabric periodically perform health checks by sending requests to test the microservices. It's important to keep your database queries very efficient so that these operations are quick and don’t result in a higher utilization of resources.
```

Finally, create a middleware that responds to the url path “/hc”.

```csharp
// Startup.cs from .NET Core 2.2 Web Api sample
//
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    //…
    app.UseHealthChecks("/hc");
    //…
} 

> ```

Reviewer: add a new line after

When the endpoint `<yourmicroservice>/hc` is invoked, it runs all the health checks that are configured in the `AddHealthChecks()` method in the Startup class and shows the result.

### HealthChecks implementation in eShopOnContainers

> Microservices in eShopOnContainers rely on multiple services to perform its task. For example, the Catalog.API microservice from eShopOnContainers depends on many services like Azure Blob Storage, SQL Server, RabbitMQ etc, therefore has several health checks added using the `AddCheck()` method. For every depending service, a custom `IHealthCheck` implementation that defines its respective health status needs to be added. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microservices in eShopOnContainers rely on multiple services to perform its task. For example, the `Catalog.API` microservice from eShopOnContainers depends on many services, such as Azure Blob Storage, SQL Server, and RabbitMQ. Therefore, it has several health checks added using the `AddCheck()` method. For every dependent service, a custom `IHealthCheck` implementation that defines its respective health status needs to be added.
```

> The open source project [AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks) solves this problem by providing custom health check implementations for each of these enterprise services that are built on top of .NET Core 2.2. Each health check is available as an individual Nuget package that can be easily added to the project. eShopOnContainers use them extensively in all its microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The open-source project [AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks) solves this problem by providing custom health check implementations for each of these enterprise services that are built on top of .NET Core 2.2. Each health check is available as an individual NuGet package that can be easily added to the project. eShopOnContainers use them extensively in all its microservices.
```

> For instance, in the Catalog.API microservice, we added the following Nuget Packages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, in the `Catalog.API` microservice, the following NuGet packages were added:
```

> ![](./media/image6.png)

Reviewer: missing alt text 

we should really start using descriptive image file names for SEO reasons

**Figure 10-6**. Custom Health Checks implemented in Catalog.API using AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks

> In the following code, we add the health check implementations for each of the depending service and then configure the middleware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following code, the health check implementations are added for each dependent service and then the middleware is configured:
```

```csharp
// Startup.cs from Catalog.api microservice
//

public static IServiceCollection AddCustomHealthCheck(this IServiceCollection services, IConfiguration configuration)
{
    var accountName = configuration.GetValue<string>("AzureStorageAccountName");
    var accountKey = configuration.GetValue<string>("AzureStorageAccountKey");

    var hcBuilder = services.AddHealthChecks();

    hcBuilder
        .AddSqlServer(
            configuration["ConnectionString"],
            name: "CatalogDB-check",
            tags: new string[] { "catalogdb" });

    if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(accountName) && !string.IsNullOrEmpty(accountKey))

>     {                

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
```

        hcBuilder
            .AddAzureBlobStorage(
                $"DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName={accountName};AccountKey={accountKey};EndpointSuffix=core.windows.net",
                name: "catalog-storage-check",
                tags: new string[] { "catalogstorage" });
    }

    if (configuration.GetValue<bool>("AzureServiceBusEnabled"))
    {
        hcBuilder
            .AddAzureServiceBusTopic(
                configuration["EventBusConnection"],
                topicName: "eshop_event_bus",
                name: "catalog-servicebus-check",
                tags: new string[] { "servicebus" });
    }
    else
    {
        hcBuilder
            .AddRabbitMQ(
                $"amqp://{configuration["EventBusConnection"]}",
                name: "catalog-rabbitmqbus-check",
                tags: new string[] { "rabbitmqbus" });
    }

    return services;
}

> 

Reviewer: remove this empty line and add one after the code block

```
Finally, we add the HealthCheck middleware to listen to “/hc” endpoint:

```csharp
// HealthCheck middleware
app.UseHealthChecks("/hc", new HealthCheckOptions()
{
    Predicate = _ => true,
    ResponseWriter = UIResponseWriter.WriteHealthCheckUIResponse
});
}
```

### Querying your microservices to report about their health status

When you’ve configured health checks as described in this article and you have the microservice running in Docker, you can directly check from a browser if it’s healthy. You have to publish the container port in the Docker host, so you can access the container through the external Docker host IP or through localhost, as shown in figure 10-7.

> 

Reviewer: remove extra empty line

![](./media/image7.png)

**Figure 10-7**. Checking health status of a single service from a browser

> In that test, you can see that the Catalog.API microservice (running on port 5101) is healthy, returning HTTP status 200 and status information in JSON. The service also checked the health of its SQL Server database dependency and RabbitMQ thus the health check reported itself as healthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that test, you can see that the `Catalog.API` microservice (running on port 5101) is healthy, returning HTTP status 200 and status information in JSON. The service also checked the health of its SQL Server database dependency and RabbitMQ, so the health check reported itself as healthy.
```

## Using watchdogs

A watchdog is a separate service that can watch health and load across services, and report health about the microservices by querying with the HealthChecks library introduced earlier. This can help prevent errors that would not be detected based on the view of a single service. Watchdogs also are a good place to host code that can perform remediation actions for known conditions without user interaction.

> The eShopOnContainers sample contains a web page that displays sample health check reports, as shown in Figure 10-8. This is the simplest watchdog you could have, since all it does is shows the state of the microservices and web applications in eShopOnContainers. Usually a watchdog also takes actions when it detects unhealthy states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The eShopOnContainers sample contains a web page that displays sample health check reports, as shown in Figure 10-8. This is the simplest watchdog you could have, since all it does is show the state of the microservices and web applications in eShopOnContainers. Usually, a watchdog also takes actions when it detects unhealthy states.
```

> Fortunately, [AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks) also provides [AspNetCore.HealthChecks.UI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AspNetCore.HealthChecks.UI/) Nuget Package that can be utilized to display the health check results from the configured URIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, [AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks) also provides [AspNetCore.HealthChecks.UI](https://www.nuget.org/packages/AspNetCore.HealthChecks.UI/) NuGet package that can be used to display the health check results from the configured URIs.
```

![](./media/image8.png)

**Figure 10-8**. Sample health check report in eShopOnContainers

> In summary, this watchdog service queries each microservice’s “/hc” endpoint. This will execute all the health checks defined within it and return an overall health state depending on all those checks. The HealthChecksUI is easy to consume with a few configuration entries and two lines of code that needs to be added into the Startup.cs of the watchdog service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, this watchdog service queries each microservice’s "/hc" endpoint. This will execute all the health checks defined within it and return an overall health state depending on all those checks. The HealthChecksUI is easy to consume with a few configuration entries and two lines of code that needs to be added into the Startup.cs of the watchdog service.
```

Sample configuration file for health check UI:

```json
// Configuration
{
  "HealthChecks-UI": {
    "HealthChecks": [
      {
        "Name": "Ordering HTTP Check",
        "Uri": "http://localhost:5102/hc"
      },
      {
        "Name": "Ordering HTTP Background Check",
        "Uri": "http://localhost:5111/hc"
      },

>       //...

Reviewer: since this is invalid json, I think it breaks the GitHub UI and it makes it hard to review the rest of the changes

```

Startup.cs file that adds HealthChecksUI:

```csharp
// Startup.cs from WebStatus(Watch Dog) service
//
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    //…
    // Registers required services for health checks
    services.AddHealthChecksUI();
}
//…
public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IHostingEnvironment env)
{
    //…
    app.UseHealthChecksUI(config=> config.UIPath = “/hc-ui”);
    //…

> } 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

The final part of monitoring is visualizing the event stream, reporting on service performance, and alerting when an issue is detected. You can use different solutions for this aspect of monitoring.

You can use simple custom applications showing the state of your services, like the custom page shown when explaining the [AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks). Or you could use more advanced tools like Azure Application Insights to raise alerts based on the stream of events.

> Finally, if you were storing all the event streams, you can use Microsoft Power BI or a third-party solution like Kibana or Splunk to visualize the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, if you're storing all the event streams, you can use Microsoft Power BI or a third-party solution like Kibana or Splunk to visualize the data.
```

## Additional resources

> -   **•	HealthChecks and HealthChecks UI for ASP.NET Core**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **HealthChecks and HealthChecks UI for ASP.NET Core**
```
